_A collection of projects emphasizing engineering, data and technical research_
---

### Engineering

[CliniConnect - streamlined clinic/patient communication](https://github.com/ljm7b2/Portfolio/tree/master/ASESP16_CliniConnect_1-master)
* The inspiration behind CliniConnect came from my work experience building home health/hospice software as well as from my wife who was working as an RN in a clinic that served an economically disadvantaged area. The clinic was spending a considerable amount of effort attempting to effectively communicate with patients via traditional methods like phone calls; and very few patients were able to access their info on the patient portal the clinic had setup. The goal was to find a way to make clinic-patient communication easier for patients and the clinic. In short: creating a system that was much more streamlined and simpler than a full-blown patient portal and less traditional than having to constantly field phone calls. The application provides a mobile app for patients and a back-end administration website for the clinic staff. The application seeks to improve communication by streamlining the essentials (determined by research to be most important for the current patient demographic): Appointment reminders, GPS directions to the clinic, upload ability for daily vitals including BP and blood sugar, and lab orders sent directly to phone (emphasis on Coumadin patients and those who have weekly lab draws). 
* The mobile app is written in Java, the server application uses Java servlets as well as Mongo DB database (DBaaS) to facilitate client-clinic COM, the administration application is written in Javascript, using Ionic framework ([source code](https://github.com/ljm7b2/Portfolio/tree/master/ASESP16_CliniConnect_1-master/Source))
* The project [ReadMe](https://github.com/ljm7b2/Portfolio/blob/master/ASESP16_CliniConnect_1-master/README.md) file should provide a substantial overview of the project. For a sample workflow, check out [this YouTube video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5t4kIitnlH0).
* Main contributions to the project include project concept as well as most of the engineering and architecture design
* Produced for the course Advanced Engineering at UMKC 

### Data

[Mining Twitter data from the first 2016 presidential debate](https://github.com/ljm7b2/Portfolio/tree/master/Mining%20Twitter%20data%20from%20the%202016%20presidential%20debate) 
* The fall of 2016 was an exciting time in the world of American politics. It was also the occasion of one of the largest Twitter events to take place - the presidential debate between the two front runner candidates Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump. The televised debate also provided a rare opportunity to watch tv while being productive and capturing some Tweets. A wide filter based on candidate name, keyword and popularly used debate hashtags being used at the time was setup for grabbing debate Tweets. The Tweets were filtered to a final set of 200,000 total for which the following questions were proposed: Which candidate is creating the most noise on Twitter by having their name or hashtag mentioned the most number of times? What is the overall sentiment score that can be assigned to Trump Tweets versus Hillary Tweets? Can we predict a winner of the current debate? Who is generating these Tweets: Is it a few individuals tweeting a lot or a lot of individual Tweeters? The questions were then converted into queries using Scala, leveraging Scala's Dataframe and RDD data types as well Stanford's NLP library for sentiment analysis. The results generated by the queries were puzzling at the time, but as time has gone on make more sense (this could be because at the time of the first debate many thought Donald Trump would lose the election). The results showed Donald Trump dominated the discussion on Twitter, garnering the most references and hashtags from Tweets. To our surprise Trump and Clinton showed almost identical sentiment ratings both leaning towards neutral or negative. The results surprised all the members on the team, as we were convinced that Hillary would have performed better (she was declared 'winner' of the debate). However, the analysis pointed towards a growing momentum behind Donald Trump, who would go on to win the November 2016 presidential election.
* Some [data visualizations](https://github.com/ljm7b2/Portfolio/blob/master/Mining%20Twitter%20data%20from%20the%202016%20presidential%20debate/Report%20Part%202.pdf) are available. They were dynamically generated using the graph library Chart.js. It should be noted that the emphasis of the project was on collecting and querying this large dataset using Scala ([see Scala source code](https://github.com/ljm7b2/Portfolio/tree/master/Mining%20Twitter%20data%20from%20the%202016%20presidential%20debate/Source%20Code/Word_Count_Tweet_Collector/src/main/scala)). If the project were to be re-visited the data representation could be much more effective if created using a more robust toolset/library as well as focusing more effort on design and effectiveness of the visualizations.
* For a thorough overview of the project see [overview document](https://github.com/ljm7b2/Portfolio/blob/master/Mining%20Twitter%20data%20from%20the%202016%20presidential%20debate/Report%20Part%201.pdf). For a view of the graphic visualizations see the [graph visualizations document](https://github.com/ljm7b2/Portfolio/blob/master/Mining%20Twitter%20data%20from%20the%202016%20presidential%20debate/Report%20Part%202.pdf).
* Main contributions were collecting data, engineering queries, generating visualizations and writing summary
* Produced for the course Principles of Big Data at UMKC

[Commerce Bank Data Dashboard](https://github.com/ljm7b2/Portfolio/tree/master/Commerce%20Bank%20Data%20Dashboard)
* Taking a different approach to data processing, the Commerce Bank Data Dashboard allows users to consume data to aid in tracking various metrics via customizable data widgets. In partnership with Commerce Bank, multiple teams competed to prototype a dashboard for Commerce Bank, culminating in a presentation at the company HQ. The project delivered a customizable dashboard where data points could be viewed in a small handful of different visualization types which the user could overlay to compare with another 'branches' data. Our team delivered one of the more complete porotypes and won the competition. The project was built using ASP.NET framework with SQL Server backend.  
* For a thorough overview of the project see section 4 - 'Main scenarios of use' in the [Productivity Analysis System User Guide](https://github.com/ljm7b2/Portfolio/blob/master/Commerce%20Bank%20Data%20Dashboard/Productivity%20Analysis%20System%20User%20Guide.pdf) created for the project submission. Source code is not available due to proprietary restrictions from Commerce Bank.
* Main contributions were design and engineering of the dashboard, documentation and final presentation
* Produced for the course Software Engineering Capstone at UMKC
### Technical Research

[Calculating Reliability of Complex Systems](https://github.com/ljm7b2/Portfolio/tree/master/Calculating%20Reliability%20of%20Complex%20Systems)
* System reliability engineering is a complex and diverse area of research. To build a deeper understanding of the complexities, a prototype was developed that can model the overall expected reliability of a system of connected nodes where the reliability of each node is known. Calculating the reliability of complex systems is computationally 'hard' and an inefficient task at best. Multiple algorithms exist within the space already, and the project seeks to build from the well-known Event-Space algorithm, which takes a naive approach. If the project were to be taken past proof of concept stage, then a more substantial algorithm should be selected based on desired requirements. The project was built using Python 2.7.  
* For an in depth discussion and code samples see the [Calculating Reliability Report](https://github.com/ljm7b2/Portfolio/blob/master/Calculating%20Reliability%20of%20Complex%20Systems/Calculating%20Reliability%20of%20Complex%20Systems.pdf)
* Main contributions were lead author and implementation of algorithm
* Produced as part of Applied Probability course final at UMKC

#### Extras
* If you have reached this point and are wondering what other completely random projects I have been involved with... then I don't want to disappoint you. The links are below, proceed with caution, otherwise...avert your eyes.
* [EvidenceGen](https://github.com/ljm7b2/EvidenceGen) I built this tool to use in my daily work when capturing test evidence. It can grab screen shots during test runs and auto generate the corresponding test evidence Word documents. A major time saver and friendly helper for those who follow medium risk processes. 
* [Hurricane Rider: T.V. Powderly's Antistrike Position in the Knights of
Labor Movement](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1wL4bWhYrY7mHewA04KlpzoI3L4mxfgV4) A historical research paper written for Senior Capstone.
* [Radio Moscow - 2007](https://www.allmusic.com/album/radio-moscow-mw0000738205) A review on AllMusic.com of an album I recorded.


luke.mcduff@cerner.com
https://www.linkedin.com/in/luke-mcduff-7a9140152
